# CS-325
This course focuses on analizing text and determining parts of speech. Labs 1, 2 and 3 take advantage of the NLTK Python package.

Lab 1 takes a word, the example in the program is 'freedom', and counts how many times it has appeared in each inaugural address throughout American history, as well as the total about of times that word appeared in the addresses. These inaugural addresses were accessed using the NLTK Python package.

Lab 2 has two functions that return statistics about a given text, and one that returns the number of words in the English language that contains a certain prefix(passed as a parameter). The two statistics that are calculated are the lexical diversity of a given text(ie. the number of words in a given text divided by the number of unique words in that same text) and the percentage of times that a given text uses a given words. The list of all words in the English language and the texts used in the test cases were accessed using the NLTK Python Package.

Lab 3 is the foundation for a POS(Part of Speech) Tagger. The most likely tag for an individual word is determined by analizing an already tagged training corpus, searching for the same word within that corpus, and seeing what the most common tag for it to have is (ie. noun, verb, adjective, etc). ApplyMLTag takes a full text(a list of words) and tags all of them with the process described above; however, it saves words that have already been tagged so that they can be reused later on instead of analizing the whole training corpus again. compareTexts is a function that returns the number of differences between the tags of two texts. This is used to analize the degree of correctness that this algorhithm has achieved. This script is also able to analize various transformations of text (ie. verbs after determiners should change to nouns) and determine what transformation would result in the most improvement in the compareTexts function. It will then apply that transformation to the text. All of the texts used were accessed using the NLTK Python Package, and the text.py file in the CS-325 repository.

Lab 4 is the foundation of a top-down tagger, which specifically uses grammars in CNF(Chomsky Normal Form). There are three functions in this script. The first determines whether a given grammar is in CNF, the second converts it into CNF if it is not, and the last takes a CNF grammar and a sentence, and uses matrices determines if it is indeed a grammatical sentence based on the given grammar. 
